Add `devToolbar.placement` configuration option (#15015)
withastro/astro: .changeset/tidy-moles-brush.md

---
'astro': minor
---

> Adds optional `placement` config option for the dev toolbar. Configure the default toolbar position (`'bottom-left'`, `'bottom-center'`, or `'bottom-right'`) via `devToolbar.placement` in your Astro config. User preferences from the toolbar UI (stored in localStorage) still take priority.

Reviewer: Just a note here that for a minor release of a new feature, we'd usually hype it up a bit more, focusing on what a user can now do (with an example usage shown) rather than implementation details.  You can [see a model of this in our contributing docs](https://contribute.docs.astro.build/docs-for-code-changes/changesets/#new-features):

- Quick sentence to shout "New! Shiny!" and grab people's attention without a lot of visual clutter
- describe the problem it solves or ability it unlocks and why that's cool
- show an example that people could copy into their projects right away to try it out so that it's easy for them to get started
- link to the docs for the new thing

So maybe something like... (just rough wording to get the idea of the structure across!)

``````suggestion
Adds optional `placement` config option for the dev toolbar.

You can now configure the default toolbar position (`'bottom-left'`, `'bottom-center'`, or `'bottom-right'`) via `devToolbar.placement` in your Astro config. This option is helpful for sites with UI elements (chat widgets, cookie banners) that are consistently obscured by the toolbar in the dev environment.

You can set a project default that is consistent across environments (e.g. dev machines, browser instances, team members):

```
//astro.config.mjs
export default defineConfig({
  devToolbar: {
    placement: 'bottom-left',
  },
});
```

User preferences from the toolbar UI (stored in `localStorage`) still take priority, so this setting can be overriden in individual situations as necessary.
``````
